
# Chapter 2:  The Variable Verse 🌌

## *2 - Getting user's input*
### Getting User's Input in Linux Shell Scripting

In Linux shell scripting, obtaining input from the user is a common requirement for interactive scripts. This input can be used for various purposes, such as configuring settings, providing data for processing, or making decisions within the script.

### The `read` command

To prompt the user for input along with a message, you can use the `read` command followed by the variable name to store the input. Here's an example script:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Prompt the user for their name
echo "Please enter your name: "
read name

# Display a greeting message
echo "Hello, $name! Welcome to our script."
```
In this script, the `read` command waits for the user to input their name after displaying the message "Please enter your name:". The input provided by the user is stored in the variable name, which is then used to display a personalized greeting message.


### With Message Prompts

If you need a message prompt while capture user input, you can use the `read` command with `-p` option. Here's an example:
```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Read user input directly without a prompt
read -p "Enter your favorite color: " color

# Display the user's favorite color
echo "Your favorite color is: $color"
```

In this script, the `-p` option with the `read` command allows you to provide a prompt message directly within the command. The user inputs their favorite color after the prompt, which is then stored in the variable color and displayed back to the user.

### Conclusion

Getting user input is a fundamental aspect of shell scripting, enabling scripts to interact with users and adapt their behavior based on the provided input. Whether with or without message prompts, the `read` command facilitates capturing user input effectively in Linux shell scripts.


⬅️[Previous](../Chapter2/1.md)-----------[Next](../Chapter2/3.md) ➡️

[Table of contents ](../../table_of_contents.md)🚀 
