# Chapter 4:  The Conditional Conundrums 🤔

## *4 - Using conditionals examples*

### Shell Script Examples with Explanation

### 1. Print on New Line

This shell script example demonstrates how to print text on a new line using `-e` and `\n` with the `echo` command.

### Script Explanation

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Print on new line
echo -e 'Hi\nthere!'
```

### 2. Calculate Sum of Two Numbers as a Command Line Argument

This shell script example calculates the sum of two numbers provided as command line arguments.
```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Calculate sum of two numbers as command line arguments
NUM1=$1
NUM2=$2
SUM=$((NUM1 + NUM2))
echo "The sum of $NUM1 and $NUM2 is: $SUM"
```
The script takes two numbers as command line arguments ($1 and $2), stores them in variables NUM1 and NUM2, calculates their sum, and then prints the result. For example, running the script with `./calculate_sum.sh 5 7` will output:
```bash
The sum of 5 and 7 is: 12
```

### 3. Taking Password as Input

This shell script example demonstrates how to prompt the user to enter a password without echoing characters to the terminal.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Taking Password as input
echo "Enter your password:"
read -s PASSWORD
echo "Password entered: $PASSWORD"
```

The `-s` option with the `read` command suppresses echoing of characters to the terminal, providing a secure way to input passwords. When the script is executed, it prompts the user to enter a password, hides the input characters, and then prints the entered password.

### 4. Taking Timed Input

This shell script example demonstrates how to prompt the user to enter input within a specified time limit.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Taking Timed input
echo "You have 5 seconds to enter your input:"
read -t 5 INPUT
if [ -z "$INPUT" ]; then
    echo "No input received within 5 seconds."
else
    echo "Input received: $INPUT"
fi
```
The `-t` option with the `read` command sets a time limit (in seconds) for input. If the user does not enter input within the specified time, the script continues execution. If input is received within the time limit, it is stored in the INPUT variable and printed. If no input is received, the script displays a message indicating no input was received within the specified time limit.



⬅️[Previous](../Chapter4/4.md)-----------[Next](..EXTRAS/2.md) ➡️

[Table of contents ](../../table_of_contents.md)🚀 
